---
layout: post
title: Create a Docker Container
date:   2013-05-30
categories: exercise
pointers:
---

In this lesson, we create a host node for running [Docker][docker] containers,
and then configure a container to run a [Riemann][riemann] server.

If you haven't already set up for running learn-pallet lessons, see
the [getting started instructions][setting-up].

The [code for this lesson][lesson-code] is in the
[learn pallet repository][learn-pallet-repo].  Follow the
[first lesson][first-lesson] to learn how to use the learn-pallet lesson code.

<!-- Need to add a first lesson which walks through using the learn-pallet
source repo -->

Let's boot up the lesson:

```clj
(use 'learn-pallet)
(bootstrap :vmfest) ;; or :vmfest-ws, or :ec2
(switch-ns docker)
```

We'll use the [docker crate][docker-crate] to start a Ubuntu 13.04 node with
docker installed, and use it to host docker containers.

```clj
(def host (start-docker-host))
```

The `start-docker-host` function calls `converge` and passes the `docker-group`
group-spec, and returns the first node for that group.  `start-docker-host` is a
simple example of the type of abstraction you can build with Pallet.

Now we have our docker host, wecan create a connection to docker on the host
using the [`pallet-docker`][pallet-docker] provider.

```clj
(def docker (pallet.compute/instantiate-provider :docker :node host))
```

With the `docker` compute service, we can use pallet as normal.  For
example, to list the containers:

```clj
(pallet.compute/nodes docker)
```

For our first container, we are going to configure it to run [Riemann][riemann]
using the `riemann-container` function, which returns the ID of the docker image
it creates.

```clj
(def [image-id port] (riemann-container docker))
```

This function starts a container, using the `riemann-group` group-spec to
install Riemann.  Once installed, it creates a new image on the docker host
node.

The returned image may be published on the docker index using the
`pallet.compute/publish-image` function.

Alternatively you can run the riemann server.

```clj
(def riemann-node (run-riemann docker image-id port))
```

This will return the port on the host that is mapped to the riemann server.





[docker]: http://docker.io "Docker site"
[setting-up]: {% post_url 2000-01-01-Running-the-code %} "Getting Started with Learn Pallet"
[learn-pallet]: http://learn-pallet.com "Learn Pallet Site"
[learn-pallet-repo]: https://github.com/pallet/learn-pallet "Learn Pallet Repository"
[lesson-code]: https://github.com/pallet/learn-pallet/tree/develop/src/docker.clj "Docker Lesson Code"
[first-leson]: {% post_url 2000-01-01-Running-the-code %} "First Learn Pallet Lesson"
[docker-crate]: https://github.com/pallet/docker-crate "Pallet Crate for Docker"
[pallet-docker]: https://github.com/pallet/pallet-docker "Pallet Provider for Docker"
[riemann]: http://riemann.io "Riemann"
